I would like to talk about a valuable asset
that every one of us possesses
—time.
It certainly is something
that is on our minds
as we go about our day’s activities.
Just think of how often
you look at a clock, your watch,
or your cell phone to check the time.
Why do we do that?
Probably to see
if we are ahead of time, on time,
behind time, or out of time!
But what exactly is time?
One dictionary says
it is “a nonspatial continuum.”
Another says
it is “the thing that is measured
as seconds, minutes,
hours, days, and years.”
To explain exactly what time is
in simple terms is nearly impossible,
and the Bible does not define it,
which may suggest that Jehovah knows
it is beyond our ability to understand fully.
But the Bible does discuss time.
It shows that Jehovah is very time conscious.
It speaks of time
as something that we should use wisely.
And it gives us
the amazing hope of living into infinity
—that is, endless time.
We do know this about time:
Every human has exactly the same number
of hours and minutes in each day.
Rich people cannot buy more hours,
and scientists cannot invent new minutes.
We can never recoup
the time we have wasted;
neither can we save it
to spend on another day.
Just think, we have exactly
the same number of hours
to use each day that Jesus Christ
had when he was on the earth!
And we can be sure
that no human used his time more wisely
than did God’s Son.
It has been said that time
is the most valuable thing
a human can spend.
And so it is up to us
how we will use the time
that is at our disposal.
In this regard, there is a Bible principle
that gives us good direction,
a principle that was shared
with us by the apostle Paul
at Philippians 1:9, 10.
He wrote in verse 9:
“And this is what I continue praying,”
and in verse 10,
“that you may make sure
of the more important things.”
Therefore, the theme of this month’s program
is “Make Time for
‘the More Important Things.’”
This presents us with a two-fold challenge.
First, we have to determine
what are the more important things of life.
In the scripture we just read,
some Bible translations say
“have a sense of what is vital.”
So we must distinguish
between activities that are merely trivial
and those that really matter.
In addition to the obligation
to work to support one’s family,
to care for necessary household chores,
and to look after one’s children
or aging parents,
we have many important things
of a spiritual nature
that deserve our full attention:
reading and meditating on God’s Word,
studying the Bible personally
and in family worship,
preparing for and attending
congregation meetings,
caring for any responsibilities
that we have in the congregation,
and participating in the Christian ministry.
Besides all of that,
who does not want some time to rest,
to exercise, to work in the garden,
to enjoy some recreation,
or to visit with family and friends?
Have you ever felt that you did not have
enough time to do all those things
—that you have difficulty
fitting all the spiritual activities
into your busy life?
As much as we might like to,
we cannot add an extra hour to our day
or another day to our week
to accomplish more things.
So we have to be selective
about how we spend
the time that we have.
We will get the most accomplished
if we prioritize
the things that really matter.
And what does that mean?
To prioritize means to decide
which tasks are more important
and to do them first.
In other words,
decide what must be given attention
prior to other things.
There is a Bible proverb
that nicely illustrates
the importance
of prioritizing life’s activities.
Proverbs 12:11 states:
“The one who cultivates his land
“will be satisfied with food,
“but the one pursuing worthless things
is lacking good sense.”
What a clear warning that is for a farmer
not to fill up his day
with worthless endeavors
and waste the precious time that he
should be spending working in his field!
Likewise, a Christian
who diligently cultivates his spirituality
can be confident of Jehovah’s blessing,
whereas a person
who is distracted by worthless activities
puts his relationship with God in danger.
How can we avoid that?
By not taking valuable time
away from spiritual pursuits
to spend on the things that distract us
from serving Jehovah whole-souled.
For example, when it comes
to communicating with others,
what should take priority?
Starting our day
by giving Jehovah praise and thanks
in prayer for another day of life
or telephoning an old friend to catch up
on the latest news in his or her life?
There’s nothing wrong
with talking to a friend.
But we need to make sure we take the time
to talk to our very best Friend, Jehovah.
Obviously, it is more important
to communicate with our heavenly Father,
so praying to him should be a priority.
The apostle Paul had more
to say about time management.
At Ephesians 5:15-17, he wrote:
“So keep strict watch that how you walk
“is not as unwise but as wise persons,
“making the best use of your time,
“because the days are wicked.
“On this account stop being unreasonable,
“but keep perceiving what
the will of Jehovah is.”
Now we can address
the second part of our challenge:
to make ample time to care
for the more important things of life.
What does Paul’s counsel
to ‘make the best use of your time’
actually mean?
Literally, in Greek,
it means to ‘buy out the appointed time.’
That implies buying time
at the expense of something else.
So it helps to analyze
how our time is actually being spent
and to see what adjustments are needed
so that we can buy out, or make,
time for the more important things.
If we ‘perceive what the will of Jehovah is,’
then we certainly will want
to use as much time as possible
to forge an ever stronger
relationship with him
and to share fully in sacred service.
Do you have definite periods set aside
for the spiritual activities of life?
For congregation meetings,
the schedule is set for us.
We know exactly when
our congregation meets
for its midweek
and weekend meetings.
We just have to be sure
that we do not let
anything else get
in the way of our attending
because the meetings are a priority.
Hebrews 10:25 says ‘not to forsake’ them.
For everything else
—reading the Bible,
preparing for meetings,
family worship,
field service activity—
we have to set our own schedule
and stick to it as part
of a good spiritual routine.
As an example,
what does your family do
most Saturday mornings?
Many families have the routine
of going in field service every Saturday.
Rarely is anything allowed
to get in the way of that routine.
For them,
Saturday morning is not the time
for music lessons,
dance classes, cooking courses,
working out at the gym,
or anything else
—it is their time for field service.
Having a routine like that
makes life easier for everyone in the family.
No one has to wonder Friday night
what is going to happen Saturday morning.
The decision has already been made
to go out in the ministry that day.
Otherwise,
if we leave it up to chance every week,
then it means
that 52 times during the year
we have to decide
whether to go in service on Saturday.
How much simpler it is
to make the decision once and for all
that we will use
that time slot for the ministry,
barring any serious,
unforeseen circumstances.
Of course,
given your family’s situation,
another day of the week may work better.
But you get the point.
Sharing regularly in the Christian ministry
cannot be left up to chance.
At Mark 13:10,
Jesus prioritized the ministry when he said:
“The good news has to be preached first.”
So if spiritual matters are going
to take precedence in our lives,
we first have to make them priorities,
and second,
make ample time
to care for those priorities.
That means setting aside
definite periods of time
to build up our spirituality
and to stay fully involved
in our worship and service.
Ecclesiastes 3:1 reinforces this thought.
It states:
“There is an appointed time for everything,
a time for every activity under the heavens.”
We have to decide
when that “appointed time” is
for each of our spiritual activities.
If we are having difficulty with this,
can we shorten the time
we spend on hobbies, recreation,
sports, social networking
and devote that time
to our Bible reading, family worship,
meeting preparation, or field ministry?
If we can, we will find it
to be spiritually refreshing
and invigorating.
This was the experience
of a family man that I know
who began preparing better
so as to participate each week
in the “Digging for Spiritual Gems” portion
of the midweek meeting.
He made time on Sunday evenings for this.
All in his family
and congregation have benefited
from the excellent points he has learned
as he does research
on the assigned Bible reading,
and he feels good because of it.
One married couple decided to eliminate
some of their hobbies and personal projects.
They even packed them up
and put them out of sight.
Why?
So as not to be distracted by those things.
They were nonessential activities
that they decided they could do without.
Likely, we could all benefit
from taking inventory of our lives
and limiting any unnecessary activities
that may be interfering
with our spiritual routine.
Imagine how rewarding that would be!
Just think, if we could buy out
30 minutes each day
from doing something
that is not essential,
that is about how much time it would take
to read the entire Bible in one year.
Or if we could buy out
an extra hour or two
each week for the field ministry,
think of how much more
we could accomplish
and how happy
that would make God and Christ,
as they see us making time
for the more important things!
Now, why have we felt
the need to spend this time
discussing how to manage time?
It is because of something else
that the Bible tells us.
First Corinthians 7:29 says
that “the time left is reduced.”
That certainly is true of the time
that is left between now
and the great tribulation!
This is not the time to neglect
the most important activity of all
—our worship of Jehovah.